TESTING.md, before:

# CS50 Lab 5
## Bashful Brigade, CS50 Summer 2017

### Testing the Maze Project - Integration testing

In order to test, we used a testing script `solve_maze_test.sh` which tests the behavior of the program when presented with invalid inputs well as valid ones. In testing for invalid parameters, we tested whether an invalid number of parameters, an invalid number of avatars, an invalid difficulty or an invalid hostname caused the program to crash - in all these cases the program exited gracefully and printed out error messages. We then tested a number of valid inputs to see whether the maze-solving algorithm works as intended. Over the course of this integration testing, we did not discover any unexpected behavior from our program. The testing script is available for viweing, and the terminal outputs are presented in `test.out.` Additionally, the logfiles are also available for viewing.
Valgrind was also used on the tests to check to see whether any memory leaks occured. There were no memory leaks detected.

### Testing the Maze Project - Unit Testing

In addition to this integration testing, we also unit tested all of the individual modules (that lent themselves to unit testing). 

#### Avatar_comm
In testing the communications module, we first wrote a program called `commtest.c` which contains a main function. This main funciton first calls the `send_init` function, which and the success of this initialization is documented with a print statement when we receive the `AM_INIT_OK` message. Then, ten threads are created, each of which run a function that attempts to solve the maze using random moves. We then test to see whether 1. the maze is solved for two avatars with difficulty = 0, 2. whether the move limit is exceeded in harder difficulties 3. whether there are any error messages from the server and 4. whether there are any memory leaks in the communications module (using valgrind). Print statements were used in the communicaions module to monitor the progress of the program - these print statements have since been commented out. The test program is available to view in `avatar_comm/commtest.c` and respectively.



### Testing output
All test outputs are presented in the file *test.out*

Commit message:

Updated avatar_solve portions of documentation

TESTING.md, after:

# CS50 Lab 5
## Bashful Brigade, CS50 Summer 2017

### Testing the Maze Project - Integration testing

In order to test, we used a testing script `solve_maze_test.sh` which tests the behavior of the program when presented with invalid inputs well as valid ones. In testing for invalid parameters, we tested whether an invalid number of parameters, an invalid number of avatars, an invalid difficulty or an invalid hostname caused the program to crash - in all these cases the program exited gracefully and printed out error messages. We then tested a number of valid inputs to see whether the maze-solving algorithm works as intended. Over the course of this integration testing, we did not discover any unexpected behavior from our program. The testing script is available for viweing, and the terminal outputs are presented in `test.out.` Additionally, the logfiles are also available for viewing.
Valgrind was also used on the tests to check to see whether any memory leaks occured. There were no memory leaks detected.

### Testing the Maze Project - Unit Testing

In addition to this integration testing, we also unit tested all of the individual modules (that lent themselves to unit testing). 

#### Avatar_comm
In testing the communications module, we first wrote a program called `commtest.c` which contains a main function. This main funciton first calls the `send_init` function, which and the success of this initialization is documented with a print statement when we receive the `AM_INIT_OK` message. Then, ten threads are created, each of which run a function that attempts to solve the maze using random moves. We then test to see whether 1. the maze is solved for two avatars with difficulty = 0, 2. whether the move limit is exceeded in harder difficulties 3. whether there are any error messages from the server and 4. whether there are any memory leaks in the communications module (using valgrind). Print statements were used in the communicaions module to monitor the progress of the program - these print statements have since been commented out. The test program is available to view in `avatar_comm/commtest.c` and respectively.

#### Avatar_solve
For the avatar_solve module, each exported function and a couple of the static functions were tested, with results appended to a log file (`test.out`) and also printed to stdout. Each of the three solve tests (`move_solve`, `leader_solve`, `follower_solve`) were called using dummy mazes, and correct moves were selected, which can be checked by seeing the log file. The `check_previous` function was also tested by creating a fake last move and building a wall. Then, two helper functions were tested, the `is_following` function and the `is_leader_collide` which both return booleans according to some dummy input. The correct results are indicated.

Testing of the avatar_solve module was limited as invaild input was not checked (since these are internal functions, it would be rare for it to occur regardless) and only the most basic cases were checked. Regardless, testing still illuminated pointer errors and edge cases were discovered during integration testing.

### Testing output
All test outputs are presented in the file *test.out* within each module.
